+++
# Pub_type key
# 0 -> 'Forthcoming',
# 1 -> 'Preprint',
# 2 -> 'Journal',
# 3 -> 'Conference Proceedings',
# 4 -> 'Book chapter',
# 5 -> 'Thesis'

weight = 68
highlight = true
title = "Gut mucosal virome alterations in ulcerative colitis"
url_doi = "https://doi.org/10.1136/gutjnl-2018-318131"
abstract="**Objective**: &nbsp;The pathogenesis of UC relates to gut microbiota dysbiosis. We postulate that alterations in the viral community populating the intestinal mucosa play an important role in UC pathogenesis. This study aims to characterise the mucosal virome and their functions in health and UC.<br><br>**Design**: &nbsp;The pathogenesis of UC relates to gut microbiota dysbiosis. We postulate that alterations in the viral community populating the intestinal mucosa play an important role in UC pathogenesis. This study aims to characterise the mucosal virome and their functions in health and UC.<br><br>**Results**: &nbsp; In UC, there was an expansion of mucosa viruses, particularly Caudovirales bacteriophages, and a decrease in mucosa Caudovirales diversity, richness and evenness compared with healthy controls. Altered mucosal virome correlated with intestinal inflammation. Interindividual dissimilarity between mucosal viromes was higher in UC than controls. Escherichia phage and Enterobacteria phage were more abundant in the mucosa of UC than controls. Compared with metacommunity 1, metacommunity 2 was predominated by UC subjects and displayed a significant loss of various viral species. Patients with UC showed substantial abrogation of diverse viral functions, whereas multiple viral functions, particularly functions of bacteriophages associated with host bacteria fitness and pathogenicity, were markedly enriched in UC mucosa. Intensive transkingdom correlations between mucosa viruses and bacteria were significantly depleted in UC.<br><br>**Conclusion**: &nbsp;We demonstrated for the first time that UC is characterised by substantial alterations of the mucosa virobiota with functional distortion. Enrichment of Caudovirales bacteriophages, increased phage/bacteria virulence functions and loss of viral-bacterial correlations in the UC mucosa highlight that mucosal virome may play an important role in UC pathogenesis.<br><br>**Keywords**: &nbsp; bacteria; gut mucosa; ulcerative colitis; virome; virome metacommunity."
publication_types = ["2"]
publication_short = "*Gut*"
publication = "*Gut*"

authors = ["Tao Zuo#","Xiao-Juan Lu","Yu Zhang","Siew C Ng*"]
date = "2019-03-06"
url_pmid = "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30842211/"
+++
